Serenna Beers: Thank you for
Amber Hascall: Waiting
Serenna Beers: To meet with me are the doctor who I normally do the 4pm group with she needed to do it at an earlier time. And so I apologize for that.
Amber Hascall: That's okay.
Serenna Beers: So how are you
Amber Hascall: I'm been better.
Yeah.
Serenna Beers: Have you ever done a bio psychosocial before
Amber Hascall: I don't know.
Serenna Beers: Okay, so it's just an assessment, I, I asked you probably 15 questions maybe and it's just kind of gives me a little, a little snapshot of who you are, where you come from. And it's just a chance for me to see maybe areas that you and I can work on
Serenna Beers: I
Serenna Beers: Every appointment with your therapist always starts with the bio psychosocial
Serenna Beers: And I didn't know like if you have any history of substance abuse or mental health, you probably would have done one at that point. So that's why I had asked
Amber Hascall: You if you'd ever done one
Serenna Beers: Tell me about what brings you to bright heart health, and why
Serenna Beers: Why now.
Amber Hascall: I just moved out here from Nebraska, about a year ago and I was seeing a doctor there and he was giving too much. He's giving me to 12 today.
Amber Hascall: I kept telling him that. But it, you know, listen to me. So, and then when I told him I was moving and gave me a couple extra months. And so that's last me this long. I had a little bit left that I was going to be myself off of things. I got put in an argument with
Amber Hascall: The guy we were forced to live with the landlord, and I got put on
Amber Hascall: Hold for no apparent reason. And now I lost custody of my youngest child.
Amber Hascall: Father's Sister who his father does nothing but
Amber Hascall: Jugs.
Serenna Beers: So how long have you been out of the hospital for what you you were just recently put on a 5150 hold. What was their reason like what did they say that that
Amber Hascall: I needed to get
Amber Hascall: For this court date, but the the reason and I can't get it from the cops the head doctor said that this is ridiculous. And I shouldn't be in here because I said their recent says, I don't want to live here anymore.
Amber Hascall: Nah, I don't want to live anymore because we were arguing about us being in that house.
Amber Hascall: So,
Serenna Beers: Wow.
Serenna Beers: Yeah, um, do you have is your history be behind substance abuse or is it behind chronic pain. When did you originally start to use substances.
Amber Hascall: Well I, I originally started using
Amber Hascall: Opiates when I had my first section I gotta dance.
Amber Hascall: But I I done math. When I was younger, like 15 with my mom just needles in my arms, he did that for like a year and a half, and then I stopped and I went out to San Francisco and
Amber Hascall: I didn't do heroin or any of those bad things because I knew about my addictive personality from doing that. So I didn't do anything until I had my son and 2001 and then I got addicted to it.
Amber Hascall: For like eight months and then I stopped for probably six years until I moved out to California and suddenly going out my young son sad.
Serenna Beers: Okay.
Serenna Beers: Okay. And are you adjusting to medication now. And the reason that I asked you, because I see that you're very sleepy. So, your eyes are drifting in and out. And so I don't know if, like, if you're on a high dose or if you're just trying to figure out your dosage, or maybe
Amber Hascall: I'm not on any sleep.
Amber Hascall: Okay, I haven't been sleeping.
Serenna Beers: So you're probably really tired, I would imagine.
Serenna Beers: What about. So at what point do you feel that your substance abuse was was at at it was at its worst that you felt that you needed to reach out for medication assistance.
Amber Hascall: And when we were in Nebraska and
Amber Hascall: My son said kept going back to California to get some or whatever. And I can try and come back to be with my kids and I didn't know if there was a
Amber Hascall: Methadone clinic there. So I started going to that and I was on that for about a year and they kept giving me so much. I was trying to get less than, like, I woke up and and mythological the bathroom and I fell back and bang my head so I switched from that to people walking to Suboxone
Okay.
Serenna Beers: What about tell me. So do you have any history, other than bright heart health, or I know you've seen a doctor. But do you have like any history within patient, substance abuse, any mental mental mental health beside your 5150. Do you, do you have any other history around treatment episodes.
Amber Hascall: I've been to treatment for drugs.
Amber Hascall: Once last kid. And the last time was about like five or six years ago.
Amber Hascall: I've never been to like treatment or been locked up because of mental. I mean, I have depression, anxiety and OCD.
Amber Hascall: But I've never had any episodes until I don't know what happened that night. I mean, my son, pick me up from work and we he went home and it's only 10 minute drive and we were arguing about something and it was probably about
Amber Hascall: his youngest son's family but
Amber Hascall: I just like blacked out and I was sober. I got just so upset and that's never happened to me before.
Serenna Beers: Oh, goodness. Wow. That was scary, a little bit too huh
Serenna Beers: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Serenna Beers: What did they, what did the doctors end up saying before they did.
Serenna Beers: This chart charged you did they evaluate you give you like a mental health assessment and what was their thoughts on it.
Amber Hascall: I'm pretty much the same is what I thought. Everyone's always trying to say that I was bipolar, even though I disappeared with them. They said that I am MTD major
Amber Hascall: Major Depressive
Serenna Beers: Disorder. Mm hmm.
Amber Hascall: And then anxiety.
Amber Hascall: Social anxiety generalized anxiety and panic.
Okay.
Serenna Beers: Um, do you have panic attacks pretty frequently
Amber Hascall: Not really, they diagnosed with something else too bad. I don't remember what it was just associate personality, maybe
Serenna Beers: D ID disassociated identity disorder.
Serenna Beers: I don't know. Okay. Do you ever hear. Do you ever hear like voices. Do you ever have auditory hallucinations or visual. Do you ever have any kind of hallucinations.
Serenna Beers: No, no.
Serenna Beers: Well, I would be interested to figure out what that last diagnoses was just because it gives me another picture of who you are, you know, are all the different kinds of things that you experience.
Serenna Beers: What about you have any history of suit suit suicidal ideation. Have you ever wanted to harm yourself or harm anyone else.
Amber Hascall: When I was 13 I charts to kill myself.
Serenna Beers: Okay, what can you just share with me a little snippet of what happened like what you did.
Amber Hascall: I swallowed a mega size bottle of Tylenol got yelled at my died and got really sick.
Serenna Beers: Okay. Oh goodness and you were 13 years old.
Serenna Beers: Okay, um, tell me about what growing up was like in your family life. Like, were you adopted. Were you raised by both mom. Mom and Dad, do you have brothers and sisters
Amber Hascall: I have a twin sister little sister were raised by our parents until we were about nine and they split up.
Amber Hascall: And then we all have our dad and tell we were about 13 he sent me to live with my mom because his girlfriend kind of handle are arguing or whatever. And so I had to live with my mom since then.
Amber Hascall: My mom is the one that gave me mess for the first time and she never stopped to the also like a thief and a gambler. So both of my sister's got a better life and my mom started messing with my credit from my very first cow and like I never had credit or anything, and
Amber Hascall: Yeah. My dad always chose them over us and then we recently she did a my twin sister did a test and our dad isn't actually our biological father
Serenna Beers: Oh, wow.
Serenna Beers: Wow. Yeah.
Serenna Beers: What's your relationship like NOW WITH YOUR MOM, DO YOU AND HER talk
Amber Hascall: And not really. I mean,
Amber Hascall: She was
Amber Hascall: No, she she drove us out here and like she was helping us to pack South finish my homework and that was like
Amber Hascall: The craziest See I've ever seen her. She was like, really high skip Addy, get a truck that three times.
Amber Hascall: And it took like two weeks to pack my stuff because she's like, come and she's really crazy and then she drove to Reno and then she like freaked out and stopped and got out of the truck to Reno and just left.
Serenna Beers: Mm hmm. And
Amber Hascall: I'm licensed. So I had to drive a truck. All the rest of the way.
Serenna Beers: And oh my goodness.
Amber Hascall: Yeah, and my sister didn't want me to bring my youngest son, but she said, whatever it was. Okay. But then when my mom that out of the truck and culture all sudden we couldn't say so we drove all the way out there and
Serenna Beers: Oh my goodness.
Serenna Beers: That's a lot of stuff going on, what is your relationship like now with your sisters
Amber Hascall: My little sister has a talk to me since I told my dad, he's not a dad.
Amber Hascall: And my twin sister.
Amber Hascall: We have never really been very close. She's always been really mean and preview. I've always given everything to help her give enough places to stay and
Amber Hascall: We were so like I said, we're supposed to come and stay out here with her and then end up living with her ex husband and pain loss friend. And when I got 52 and 50
Amber Hascall: She sent my son off. And that's why I lost custody. Like if she will just be they knew that it would have been just a couple days like there's no reason. None of them had to watch them anyway. Since 18 months and she just
Amber Hascall: I don't have a relationship with her. She's not
Serenna Beers: Okay, um, growing up.
Serenna Beers: Tell me what family life was like, I mean, I know you shared that your mom was the first one that put a needle in your arm. Do you know Tim, what did she have boyfriends coming in and out. What was it that type of thing.
Amber Hascall: She
Amber Hascall: Sued different husbands after my dad.
Okay.
Serenna Beers: Okay, so I know you said that your mom has a problem with drugs as well as mental health, your younger sister has a problem with mental health. Right.
Serenna Beers: And then your, your twin sister does she have any issues with substances or mental health.
Amber Hascall: I think she has like anxiety and and she has all the same things I do too, but
Serenna Beers: Was there any other type of addictive things going on within your family. I know you mentioned mom gamble. But did any of your
Serenna Beers: Your siblings like was their food disorder was their sex addiction was there, you know, did anybody work a lot. Was there any other type of addictive, the behaviors going on. Okay.
Serenna Beers: Okay, what about tell me what school was like for you, like, How far did you complete did you graduate. Do you have some college did you have any learning disabilities, while growing up.
Amber Hascall: When we were little. We both had disabilities with our speech, I can say my ours, which is a your SS, but other than that you do good in school.
Amber Hascall: But I only made it until the first year of high school and I was in shock treatment then and then I ran away.
Amber Hascall: And my sister finished but I did get my key G and to our prison, and I got my custom calculations and my associates have my bachelor's in graphic design and I'm working on my masters right now.
Amber Hascall: For my MFA in San Francisco ours, too, but I'm
Amber Hascall: Yeah.
Serenna Beers: I'm. What about. Were there any events that you I mean this is a loaded question because you have a lot of stuff that's kind of that's happened.
Serenna Beers: Within your life, especially as a child, but is there anything like when when I say, were there any events that stood out to you, growing up either with fam fam family or friends. Is there any memory that like night pops up when I say that.
Amber Hascall: I don't know, just
Amber Hascall: All the times. My mom is stolen from me.
Amber Hascall: Her wonderful ex husband's
Serenna Beers: Okay.
Serenna Beers: Um, and you never served in the military.
Serenna Beers: And you have any financial or legal issues that you're concerned about at this time.
Amber Hascall: I mean,
Amber Hascall: I've been doing okay. But I was having my son's help like and the time so I didn't have money. And I think that's another reason why he's helping his sister, because she doesn't want to have to pay me anymore but
Amber Hascall: Yeah, I mean I have a job, but it doesn't even pay my rent. That's why I'm trying to finish my school
Serenna Beers: Okay.
Serenna Beers: Are you currently in a relationship.
Serenna Beers: Yeah okay and you have, you have to two kids or three kids.
Amber Hascall: I have two, the only one. So, Venus me my 18 year old.
Serenna Beers: Right, and then your youngest son went to
Amber Hascall: Wash your
Serenna Beers: Dad. Okay.
Amber Hascall: And
Serenna Beers: Okay, to the dads and okay I don't think I missed anything. So is it just you and your oldest son that lives to gather then
Serenna Beers: Yeah. Okay, tell me.
Serenna Beers: Like, tell me, maybe three things that you feel might be beneficial that you might want to like work on, you know,
Serenna Beers: I know it's probably, probably a lot and I would imagine that you've got probably a lot going on. Especially after what just happened with you and just kind of just trying to stabilize from that.
Serenna Beers: So if you can't think, think of three things maybe maybe at least give me a couple of things.
Serenna Beers: Sir, any like anything you want to learn about or is there any short term goals that you have that you want support in
Amber Hascall: Maybe anger management.
Okay.
Serenna Beers: We could do that.
Serenna Beers: Do you damn and and with anger management up oftentimes a core correlation between someone who struggles with their anger is the inability to express how they feel in a non confrontational manner. It's like your communication could stand to be a little more for lack of better terms.
Serenna Beers: Worked on you know
Serenna Beers: There's different styles.
Like you people
Serenna Beers: Okay, communication and anger management. Those are really good ways for us to start communication skills and anger management.
Serenna Beers: Okay, let me take a look at my schedule. Let me see what I got available. How flexible are you as far as like, you know, times and everything.
Amber Hascall: I don't even know right now because I know one of my jobs starts. What were you thinking
Serenna Beers: I was thinking, I mean, I don't know if you want to keep the same time what times it's 130, we could do a two o'clock on Friday, the 15th. Let me see what because you just got out of the hospital. I just want to be able to
Serenna Beers: support you, you know, in any way that I can. I would imagine you're probably emotions are like this, I would imagine. I mean, that would make sense and just
Serenna Beers: You know, maybe, maybe just for the first month, especially in until you start this job if I could see you on a weekly basis for for the
Serenna Beers: First month and then see how things go. And then let's then we could talk talk about lessening but
Serenna Beers: I just think, you know, I just want to be able to support you in any way that I can, especially right now while you have the time. If you're open to that.
Serenna Beers: Okay, let me take a look. So I have on the
15th.
Serenna Beers: And we said, two o'clock right
Serenna Beers: Yeah, I am.
Serenna Beers: And it's amber as your last initial right
Amber Hascall: Is my first name.
Right.
Amber Hascall: He is my last
Serenna Beers: Oh, I don't know where I got a but okay. Amber ah individual follow up.
Serenna Beers: Okay, communication skills.
Serenna Beers: And anger management. Okay, so I'm gonna let the
Serenna Beers: VC know
Serenna Beers: To put you in on my calendar for 2pm on the fifth 15th and in between now and then I'll kind of take a look and see about different things that you and I could work on as far as communication skills and some anger management stuff.
Serenna Beers: Is
Serenna Beers: How's your anxiety right right now on, on a scale of
Serenna Beers: Zero to 10,000 okay
Serenna Beers: I'm going to give you a really quick skill. Before we get off the phone and it is it's used for anxiety. It's a great skill I use it. I use it with my kid, and she most the time doesn't even know it.
Serenna Beers: But I use a water bottle and you have pressure points that are right here and right here. You also have your brain stem.
Serenna Beers: And what that does when you put cold on those pressure points it initiates what's called a diverse response a diverse responses. It's a Dialectical Behavioral Therapy skills tool skill and when your brain is is
Serenna Beers: When your brain when a diverse re responses initiated, your brain will automatically go to
Serenna Beers: To survival mode.
Serenna Beers: And it'll start to shut down things that your body doesn't need in order to
Serenna Beers: In order to survive survive. The first thing that goes, Are your emotions.
Serenna Beers: Your, your brain knows. Intuitively, we don't need anxiety and fear to get us through this situation. We need, we need to be able to breathe. We need to be able to think so it'll shut down those emotions that hinder your process of being able to
Serenna Beers: To, Sir. Sir, Sir survive so
Serenna Beers: This is a very utilized skill by probably every therapist that I know and it is an amazing skill.
Serenna Beers: If you're in a store and all. And all of a sudden you start to feel yourself getting angry or irritable and you know it's coming from anxiety walk over to
Serenna Beers: Where they keep the pop or whatever, open up that door and just stick your head in there. I mean, like literally use cold. Um, if you're in your kitchen, you're making dinner and you're like, so pissed off that you don't really want to grab a water bottle and stick it on your
Serenna Beers: pressure points and open up your freezer, stick your head in it. Believe it or not, it'll bring your anxiety anxiety down enough so that you can
Serenna Beers: Focus enough to do what you have to do to make somewhat of a good decision. And I say some some somewhat because it takes a while to really use this skill to train your brain to be more effective.
Serenna Beers: With it, because the goal of the cold therapy.
Serenna Beers: Is to decrease the anxiety, so that you don't stay in in emotion mind. We don't want you in emotion mind. We're not very effective when our mind is just running on our emotions.
Serenna Beers: We need the rational mind with the emotion mind together makes the wise mind. And that's all about what that's about the Dialectical Behavioral therapy so cold water bottle. Cold. Cold. Cold. We want cold. Cold. Cold on your pressure points.
Serenna Beers: Oftentimes I might even double fist it not in the way that I used to, but in this way now.
Serenna Beers: And I, and I'll do this, but I will walk around with with a thing on my brain stem and I, it really is effective. So I'm going to ask that. That's the skill that you put in place over the next week and then I will touch base with you about how it's working.
Amber Hascall: And so I want you to share that with me, it's, it's a simple
Serenna Beers: Easy to remember skill in between fingers right here pressure points or do your brain stamp or any you know any anywhere.
Serenna Beers: Where you know that you can feel a vein running through, you know what I mean.
Serenna Beers: It's very effective.
So,
Serenna Beers: Is there anything, any other thing that I that I that I can do for you know that I can do for you. Is there any other support that you need from me, before we get off the phone.
Amber Hascall: So,
Serenna Beers: No. Okay. Just remember that your circumstances are temporary. It's not always going to be this this way and we just got to push you until we can get through to the other side, whatever that looks like.
Serenna Beers: But at the end of the day, worrying and stressing isn't going to change whatever your situation is right. It's how you react to it.
Amber Hascall: Right.
Amber Hascall: Okay, okay.
Serenna Beers: Okay so mark on your calendar, the 15th at 2pm Friday. Okay.
Amber Hascall: All right.
Serenna Beers: Thanks. Bye bye.